URL : https://yoursite.com?folder1/folder2/index.php?Movies=1

https:// | yoursite.com | /folder1/folder2 | index.php | ?userid=1

protocol | your actual website's domain | folders | file which is requested | query

URL: Server Details + URI
URI: Path of the file


HTTP request Message

HTTP method 	URI 	HTTP version
User Agent
Host name
Accepted parameters
Data/Payload

HTTP Response message

http version  response code/type of response
server info
content info
set-cookie
source code


HTTP Message Format 
HTTP Request Message: 
Module – 1: Application Layer
13
Where sp – space, cr – carriage return and lf – line feed. 
Method: 
There are five HTTP methods: 
 GET: The GET method is used when the browser requests an object, with the requested 
object identified in the URL field. 
 POST: With a POST message, the user is still requesting a Web page from the server, 
but the specific contents of the Web page depend on what the user entered into the form 
fields. If the value of the method field is POST, then the entity body contains what the 
user entered into the form fields. 
 PUT: The PUT method is also used by applications that need to upload objects to Web 
servers. 
 HEAD: Used to retrieve header information. It is used for debugging purpose. 
 DELETE: The DELETE method allows a user, or an application, to delete an object on a 
Web server. 
URL: Specifies URL of the requested object 
Version: This field represents HTTP version, usually HTTP/1.1 
Header line: 
Ex: 
Host: www.someschool.edu 
Connection: close 
User-agent: Mozilla/5.0 
Accept-language: fr 
The header line Host:www.someschool.edu specifies the host on which the object resides. 
By including the Connection:close header line, the browser is telling the server that it doesn’t 
want to bother with persistent connections; it wants the server to close the connection after 
sending the requested object. 
The User-agent: header line specifies the user agent, that is, the browser type that is making the 
request to the server. Here the user agent is Mozilla/5.0, a Firefox browser. 
Module – 1: Application Layer
14
The Accept-language: header indicates that the user prefers to receive a French version of the 
object, if such an object exists on the server; otherwise, the server should send its default version. 
HTTP Response Message 
Ex: 
The status line has three fields: the protocol version field, a status code, and a corresponding 
status message. 
Version is HTTP/1.1 
The status code and associated phrase indicate the result of the request. Some common status 
codes and associated phrases include: • 200 OK: Request succeeded and the information is returned in the response. 
HTTP/1.1 200 OK 
Connection: close 
Date: Tue, 09 Aug 2011 15:44:04 GMT 
Server: Apache/2.2.3 (CentOS) 
Last-Modified: Tue, 09 Aug 2011 15:11:03 GMT 
Content-Length: 6821 
Content-Type: text/html 
(data data data data data ...) 
Module – 1: Application Layer
15
• 301 Moved Permanently: Requested object has been permanently moved; the new URL is 
specified in Location: header of the response message. The client software will automatically 
retrieve the new URL. 
• 400 Bad Request: This is a generic error code indicating that the request could not be 
understood by the server. 
• 404 Not Found: The requested document does not exist on this server. 
• 505 HTTP Version Not Supported: The requested HTTP protocol version is not supported by 
the server. 
Header fields: 
 The server uses the Connection: close header line to tell the client that it is going to close 
the TCP connection after sending the message. 
 The Date: header line indicates the time and date when the HTTP response was created 
and sent by the server. 
 The Server: header line indicates that the message was generated by an Apache Web 
server; it is analogous to the User-agent: header line in the HTTP request message. 
 The Last-Modified: header line indicates the time and date when the object was created 
or last modified. 
 The Content-Length: header line indicates the number of bytes in the object being sent. 
 The Content-Type: header line indicates that the object in the entity body is HTML text. 