IDOR (Insecure Direct Object Reference):
When an application is referring a data with a number/alphabet/parameter and provides the data without validating the user who is making the request.
It is read-only.

Where can we try IDOR?
Where all a user's data is referenced with a number/alphabet/names/symbols, we could try IDOR.


Privilege Escalation:
It is an attack where attacker logs in as one user and perform operations or actions as another user.
Similar to IDOR but tamperable.
It has two types
1) Horizontal Privilege Escalation: When you're escalating privileges between two users of same access level/permissions.
2) Vertical Privilege Escalation: When you're escalating privileges between two users of different/higher access level/permissions.


Access Control:
Access control is a data security process that enables organizations/applications to manage which user is authorized to access which data.



Practical

Horizontal Privilege Escalation
OWASP-BWA
WebGoat
Note: To undo all the changes made in the webgoat application, click on Admin Functions and then Refresh Database option. Press yes to the prompt.
Access Control Flaws
LAB: Role-based Access Control
Every users Password is their first name in lowercase letters.

Desc:
Goat Hills Financial's Human Resources department contains employees with any one of employee/manager/hr/admin privilege.
Consider yourself as the user Larry Stooge(employee). We are going to perform Horizontal Privilege Escalation on another employee, say Curly Stooge.
Only we can Edit our Profile except admins. We perform Horizontal Privilege Escalation by editing another employee's(Curly Stooge's) Profile.

1) Login as Curly Stooge, click on View Profile and Edit Profile. Make some changes and Update Profile. Logout.
2) Capture the Request made by Curly on Burpsuite.
3) Select the HTTP Request message where action=UpdateProfile and send it to Repeater which will create the first payload in Repeater.
4) Login as Larry and send the HTTP Request message to Repeater which will create the second payload in Repeater.
5) Select the first payload in the Repeater tab and send it to the Repeater again which will create a third payload.
6) Copy the Cookie session and Authorization token in second payload and paste it in the third payload.
   Now, first payload contains Curly's UpdateProfile HTTP Request message
		second payload contains Larry's Login HTTP Request message
		third payload contains Curly's HTTP Request Message with Cookie and Authorization of Larry.
7) Edit the Profile of Curly's (third)payload like LastName, Address or any other information.
   You can edit the LastName of Curly so that the changes will be visible in the Login page.
8) Select the third payload and click on Send at the top-left corner to send the HTTP Request message.
   Now open the login page of Goat Hills Financial's Human Resources department.
   You can see the changed LastName made to Curly's Profile which was not made by her.
   
   
Vertical Privilege Escalation
OWASP-BWA
WebGoat
Note: To undo all the changes made in the webgoat application, click on Admin Functions and then Refresh Database option. Press yes to the prompt.
Access Control Flaws
LAB: Role-based Access Control
Every users Password is their first name in lowercase letters.

Desc:
Goat Hills Financial's Human Resources department contains employees with any one of employee/manager/hr/admin privilege.
Consider yourself as the user Larry Stooge(employee). We are going to perform Vertical Privilege Escalation.
Here, there are two victims of privilege escalation.
We delete an employee(Curly Stooge) from the database even though only admins are permissible to delete a Profile. Consider John Wayne is the admin.

1) Login as John Wayne, select an employee(In our case Eric Walker) from the list and DeleteProfile.
   Admin John Wayne wants to delete Eric's profile but the attacker wants to delete Curly's Profile.
2) Open the Proxy tab in Burpsuite and turn on the Intercepter.
3) After the Delete action has been intercepted, send the HTTP Request message to the Repeater which will create the first payload in Repeater.
   a) Drop the interception if you want to keep the employee profile(Eric Walker) which the admin wanted to delete.
   b) If you don't want the admin to suspect anything, then forward the HTTP Request message.
	  Although this could've been achieved without any Interception.
4) Turn off the Intercept.
5) Login as Larry and send the HTTP Request message to Repeater which will create the second payload in Repeater.
6) Select the first payload in the Repeater tab and send it to the Repeater again which will create a third payload.
7) Copy the Cookie session and Authorization token in second payload and paste it in the third payload.
8) Change the employee_id from 104(Eric's E-ID) to 103 (Curly's E-ID).
   Now, first payload contains John's DeleteProfile HTTP Request message
		second payload contains Larry's Login HTTP Request message
		third payload contains John's modified HTTP Request Message.
9) Send the modified HTTP Request message(third payload) by clicking on Send button on the top-left corner of Burpsuite.

Note: To undo all the changes made to the WebGoat database, open Admin Functions and then open Refresh Database. Press yes for the prompt.



Presentation on Monday(11-09-2023)
Password Cracking(Fuzzing)
Which machine we used?
What is our target?
Which parameter are you attacking?
Which tool are you using?
What is the end output?



Password Cracking(Fuzzing)
Which machine we used? Kali Linux
Which tool are you using? Burpsuite
What is our target?	Mutillidae II
Which parameter are you attacking? username and password
What is the end output? Logged in


Presentations topic :-

Port Scanning		- Vinayak
Vulnerability Scanning	- Srinivas
Windows Exploitation	- Vijay
Linux Exploitation	- Aproova
SQL Injection - Login Bypass - Bhairavi
SQL Injection - Data dump    - Karthik
XSS			     - Abhishek
LFI			     - Shravya
Client Side Filtering	     - Nikita
Password Cracking	     - Samarth
IDOR		 	     - Chandana
Privilege Escalation Horizontal - Swapnil
Privilege Escalation Verticle   - Divya